add yellow paper (#1)
Sajjon/svar: yellow_paper/yellow_paper.md

* Choose questions where the answers can be broken up into logical parts that force the user to provide multiple inputs, and where the range of possible answers provides sufficient entropy.
* Use a selection of options, rather than a text field, for any parts of the answer that can be covered well in this way. For example, rather than expect the user to type "street" or "St.", offer a (long) menu of options like Street, Road, Lane, etc.
* For parts of the answer that do use a text field, process it to remove spaces, punctuation, and capitalization.

To take the example in the diagram above, we might offer the question *“What was the year, make, and model of your first car?”* The three elements of the question allow us to break up the answer into three distinct parts. For “year” and “make”, we can even offer answers as selection lists of all possible years and auto manufacturers so that there can be no ambiguity, leaving only the “model” as freeform text. Then, the processing on that answer can reduce the example answer to “golftdi” so that later variations in the answer like “Golf TDI”, “golf tdi”, or “GOLF TDi” are all correct.

> ### Multiple encrypted output private key packages

Reviewer: Hmm, "output private key packages" is a bit inaccurate - see my comment above on the graphics.

So `### Multiple encryptions` ?

Author: Agreed, going with "Multiple encryptions of the secret"

> Once we have a keypair for each of the questions/answers, we can use them to protect a single final output private key. We encrypt the output private key into multiple packages using different combinations of question/answer key pairs to provide the level of failsafe-ness we desire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have encryption keys for each of the questions/answers (more than one encryption key per `(Question, Answer, Salt)` tuple since we do `n choose m`), we can use them to protect our `secret` (typically a BIP39 Mnemonic). By encrypting the secret using different combinations of question/answer/salt we provide the level of failsafe-ness we desire.
```

Author: Agreed in principle, rewording a bit.

> For example, if we want to ask 3 questions but allow the user to answer any 2, we encrypt the output private key with every combination of 2 question/answer key pairs – 3 combinations in this case. This means that success in answering at least any 2 of the questions will allow one of the packages to be decrypted and the output private key temporarily recovered just for the duration of its use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if we want to ask 3 questions but allow the user to answer any 2, we encrypt the secret with every combination of 2 question/answer key pairs – 3 combinations in this case. This means that success in answering at least any 2 of the questions will allow one of the encryptions to be decrypted and the secret temporarily recovered just for the duration of its use.
```

Author: Agreed.

> In a real system design, the choice of the number of questions, and the number of encrypted key packages, should strike a suitable balance between increased security (more questions, fewer packages allowing for fewer incorrect answers) and increased reliability (fewer questions, more packages allowing for more incorrect answers). This choice may be influenced by things like the guessability of the questions/answers for the users in question, and how the output private key is used in the account’s multi-signature structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a real system design, the choice of the number of questions, and the number of minimum correct answers, should strike a suitable balance between increased security (more questions, lower minumum correct answers allowed) and increased reliability (fewer questions, more incorrect answers allowed). This choice may be influenced by things like the guessability of the questions/answers for the users in question, and how the secret is used in the account’s multi-signature structure (e.g. letting the secret be a BIP39 mnemonic from which private keys are derived).
```

Author: Agreed in principle, rewording a bit.

### Saved data in the user's wallet

To create a usable system, the user's wallet needs to store some data for later use so that it can be used automatically and so the user need not independently manage it:

> * Each of the encrypted output private key packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each of the encryptions of the secret
```

Author: Agreed.

> * The salt used to create the question/answer keypairs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The salt generated for each question and answer tuple, used to derive the entropies
```

Author: Agreed in principle, rewording a bit.

> * The list of questions corresponding to the keypairs created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The list of questions, this is especially important in an implementation where user gets to chose the questions to answer, from a larger list of potential questions. Also important if the implementation wants to modify any of the questions later, so the question need to be saved in plain text, not just by ID.

Author: Agreed in principle, rewording a bit.

> With these things, a wallet may perform the authentication by offering the questions (and the structure of their answers), using the answers and salt to decrypt at least one of the packages, and recovering the output private key for use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these things, a wallet may perform the authentication by offering the questions (and the structure of their answers), using the answers and salt to decrypt at least one of the encryptions, and recovering the secret for use.
```

Author: Agreed.

This does put some burden on the wallet software. Crypto wallets typically assume the idea that the user has written down their private key (or corresponding mnemonic seed phrase) and so that is the only information required to recover access. With the decentralized security questions concept, the wallet software has a responsibility to save the additional information that enables easy use of authentication using the security questions. That includes likely a backup mechanism of some kind to ensure access to this data even if, for example, a phone is lost.

> The idea of backing up this data (perhaps even in the cloud) sounds concerning on the surface. However, note that the package of data is not "security critical" on its own. If an attacker is able to access this data, they have no ability to make use of the output private key without finding the correct answers to the security questions. With sufficient entropy in the choice of questions and structured answers, the best they have achieved is narrowing down the list of questions to answer for a social engineering attack, if they are able to research the answers for the user in question or phish the answers from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea of backing up this data (perhaps even in the cloud) sounds concerning on the surface. However, note that the package of data is not "security critical" on its own. If an attacker is able to access this data, they have no ability to make use of the encryptions without finding the correct answers to the security questions. With sufficient entropy in the implementors choice of questions and structured answers, the best they have achieved is narrowing down the list of questions to answer for a social engineering attack, if they are able to research the answers for the user in question or phish the answers from them.
```

Author: Agreed.

> While this means that cryptographic security is maintained in the case of a revealed data package, it does mean that the output private key the system protects should be considered "less secure" than the traditional “pure” private key that the user has securely written down somewhere that no one can discover it. This is the primary reason that we do **not** recommend this system be used to protect a private key that wields *exclusive* or *primary* control over an account, but rather as a secondary "factor" in a multi-signature scheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this means that secret is not revealed in the case of a leaked data package, it does mean that the secret the system protects should be considered "more compromised" than if the secret was never input into the system. This is the primary reason that we do **not** recommend this system be used to protect a private key that wields *exclusive* or *primary* control over an account, but rather as a secondary "factor" in a multi-signature scheme.
```

Author: Agreed.

## An Example Multi-sig System Use

Even in traditional systems, a set of personal questions is never used as the sole method of authentication. Answering these questions would be too burdensome for everyday logging in and potentially too prone to social engineering, so a password is still typically used. But if the user can't produce their password, or their identity is in doubt, they can answer these questions (often speaking to a human on the phone who can interpret the answers) to prove who they are and recover access.

Similarly, we can use decentralized security questions not for the *primary* private key used for everyday cryptocurrency account access, but as a *secondary* factor used as part of recovery of access. This may, for example, enable the *primary* key to be one that is secure but *losable*, such as a key stored securely on a mobile phone. If the primary key is lost (perhaps by losing a phone), decentralized security questions may be used as part of a multi-signature method to update the account to use a different primary key.

> We can describe such a system using some features of the Radix Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can describe such a system using some features of the [Radix Network](https://www.radixdlt.com/).
```

Author: Agreed.

> The Radix Network includes "smart accounts" – essentially smart contracts that act as accounts that hold user tokens and can include multi-signature logic to define how those accounts may be used in various ways. One of the ways Radix uses this capability is the possibility of having different "roles" for smart accounts that have different rights and are controlled by different sets of private keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Radix Network includes ["smart accounts"](https://learn.radixdlt.com/article/what-are-smart-accounts) – essentially smart contracts that act as accounts that hold user tokens and can include multi-signature logic to define how those accounts may be used in various ways. One of the ways Radix uses this capability is the possibility of having different "roles" for smart accounts that have different rights and are controlled by different sets of private keys.
```

Author: Agreed.
